Whats new in es2019 (#2656)
okta/okta.github.io: _source/_posts/2019-01-18-whats-new-in-es2019.md

## Current ES2019 Candidates

At the time of this writing, there are no new [TC39 proposals](https://github.com/tc39/proposals) at Stage 4. However, there are a number of Stage 3 *candidates*.

> Disclaimer: Because these are Stage 3 candidates, the final ES2019 language specification may not include all of these proposals. In fact, some of these proposals have been under consideration for years. Also, the final implementations may look or behave differently than the current candidates.

### Changes to JavaScript Classes

There are a number of proposed changes to Classes, including [field declarations](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields), [private methods and fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-private-methods), and [static methods and fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-static-class-features/). Here's a sample of what these changes might look like.

```javascript

> class Truck extends Automobile {

Reviewer: Most JS examples I see use 2 spaces instead of 4.

const huh = scattered.map( chunk => chunk.split( " " ) );
console.log( huh ); // [ [ "my", "favorite" ], [ "hamburger" ], [ "is", "a" ], [ "chicken", "sandwich" ] ]

// flatMap() concatenates the returned arrays together
const better = scattered.flatMap( chunk => chunk.split( " " ) );
console.log( better ); // [ "my", "favorite", "hamburger", "is", "a", "chicken", "sandwich" ]
```

### More Proposed ES2019 Candidates

Here's a list of additional Stage 3 candidates at the time of this writing.

* Standardized [`globalThis`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global) object
* Dynamic [`import()`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-dynamic-import)
* [Legacy RegExp](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-legacy-features) features
* [import.meta](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-meta)
* String [`matchAll()`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-string-matchall)
* [`Object.fromEntries()`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-object-from-entries)
* Well-formed [`JSON.stringify`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-well-formed-stringify)
* Standardized [Hashbang](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-hashbang) for command-line interface (CLI) applications

## When to Expect ES2019

> For the past few years, TC39 has consistently released new editions of the ECMA-262 ECMAScript Language Specification in June. It is very likely we will see the ES2019 specification released June 2019.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the past few years, TC39 has consistently released new editions of the ECMA-262 ECMAScript Language Specification in June. It is very likely we will see the ES2019 specification released in June of this year.
```

Reviewer: Or "this June".

```bash
node --harmony-class-fields --harmony-static-fields index.js
```

### Test with Babel 7.0+

[Babel](https://babeljs.io) is a JavaScript utility that allows you to use the latest language features that may not yet be supported in all browsers and environments. As you write "modern" JavaScript, Babel translates your code into equivalent syntax compatible with older engines.

Babel supports experimental language features using [plugins](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/plugins). Babel maintains a list of [supported ECMAScript proposals](https://github.com/babel/proposals/) in their official repository.

## Learn More About JavaScript and ES Next

Want to learn more about JavaScript? Check out some of these useful resources.

* [Learn JavaScript in 2019!](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/12/19/learn-javascript-in-2019)
* [The History (and Future) of Asynchronous JavaScript](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/01/16/history-and-future-of-async-javascript)
* [Build a Secure Node.js Application with JavaScript Async Await Using Hapi](https://scotch.io/tutorials/build-a-secure-nodejs-application-with-javascript-async-await-using-hapi)

> * [Use TypeScript to Build a Node API with Express](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/11/15/node-express-typescript)

Reviewer: Blog post links should be relative.
